# Environments

When playing Skirm, the Environment on which your Squad finds itself can drastically change the strategy, tactics, and Agent options. Environments have unique associated buffs and debuffs, and random Events that occur on each turn.

At the start of each turn, the player with the initiative rolls `1D6` to select the random Event for that Turn from the tables below.

# Derelict Ship

A wandering ship, abandoned for hundreds of years. This ship has been roaming the cosmos aimlessly, colliding with and agglomerating other ships. These ships are said to hold invaluable ancient technology, and despite their extreme danger are an attractive target for Squads hoping to find powerful artefacts to supplement their arsenal.

## Events

1. **Nothing:** Nothing interesting happens.
1. **Gravity Malfunction:** The ship's gravitational regulators experience a failure.
    - All Agents get -2 `MOV` for the Turn (to a minimum of `2`).
1. **Power Failure:** The ship's power systems fail, plunging the corridors into darkness.
    - All Agents' Ranged weapons have `RG4` (maximum range `4`) for the Turn. If an Agent's Ranged weapon already has a limited Range lower than `4`, it retains its original Range (e.g. `RG3` does not become `RG4`).
1. **Lockdown:** The ship's aging security system has initiated a lock down.
    - All doors in the ship that were open are now closed.
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]

# Factorium

A manufactory complex, filled with complex pipe systems and dangerous machinery, all on the brink of failure.

## Events

1. **Nothing:** Nothing interesting happens.
1. **Pipe Pressure Failure**: The pipes of the Factorium are overloaded with pressure and suddenly burst, spraying corrosive chemicals.
    - All Agents that are next to a wall receive `2` Damage (roll for saves using each Agent's `ARM`).
1. **Toxic Fumes:** Toxic gases are released from the pipe system, affecting all Agents.
    - All Agents get -1 `ACT` for the Turn.
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]

# Urban Center

An urban sprawl with homes, shops, and administrative or religious buildings.

## Events

1. **Nothing**
    - Nothing interesting happens.
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]

# Hekatron Throne World

An ancient world that was once home to a Hekatron dynasty. The buildings and monuments have been crumbling for thousands of years, and strange creatures have taken over the ruins.

## Events

1. **Nothing**
    - Nothing interesting happens.
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]

# Abandoned Temple

A mysterious place of worship for an eldritch God, long lost to creeping vines, earthquakes, and arcane energies.

## Events

1. **Nothing**
    - Nothing interesting happens.
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]

# Death World

An uninhabitable world, wracked by the capricious movement of its inner core and tectonic plates. 

## Events

1. **Nothing**
    - Nothing interesting happens.
1. **Earthquake**
    - [TBD]
1. **Acid Rain**
    - Torrential acid rain falls from the sky, damaging all Agents.
    - All Agents that are not under a roof receive `2` `DAM` (apply each Agent's `ARM` reduction as normal).
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]
1. [TBD]