# Actions

During its activation, an Agent can perform a number of Actions up to its `ACT` stat *(see [StatCards](../2.Squads/1.StatCards.md))*.  
Each Action consumes a number of Action Points or `ACT`.

Actions with an `ACT` cost can be performed by spending the Agent's `ACT` Action Points or the Squad's [Tactical Orders](../1.Introduction/2.Basics.md#tactical-orders).  
Actions with a `TO` cost can only be performed by spending the Squad's [Tactical Orders](../1.Introduction/2.Basics.md#tactical-orders).

Unless otherwise specified, an Agent may not perform the same Action more than once during its activation.

# Basic Actions

All Agents can perform the following Actions during their Activation:

## Move (1 ACT)

The Agent moves a number of squares up to its `MOV` stat.  
*(See also [Actions - Movement](./2.Movement.md))*

## Dash (1 ACT)

The Agent moves up to `2` Squares. This movement follows the same rules as a normal Move.  
*(See also [Actions - Movement](./2.Movement.md))*

## Shoot (1 ACT)

The Agent fires one of its Ranged weapons at a valid target. Note that if an Agent does not have a Range weapon, it cannot perform this Action.  
*(See also [Actions-Combat](./3.Combat.md))*

## Melee (1 ACT)

Melee Combat occurs when two Agents are in adjacent Squares and one of them initiates a Melee action.  
*(See also [Actions-Combat](./4.Combat.md))*

## Revive (2 ACT)
The Agent revives a Downed Agent in an Adjacent Square.  
When an Downed Agent is revived, it returns with `2` `HIT` remaining, and it cannot be activated during this Turn (it is considered to have already been activated).  
The Agent cannot perform this Action in the same activation in which it performed an Advanced Revive Action.  
The Agent cannot perform this action if it is Adjacent to a Standing Enemy Agent, or if the Downed Agent is Adjacent to a Standing Enemy Agent.

## Open/Close Door (1 ACT)

The Agent opens or closes a door that is on one of the edges of its current Square.

## Pick Up (1 ACT)

The Agent picks up a marker or token that is in the Square it currently occupies. The mission you are playing will indicate which markers or tokens can be picked up or dropped.

## Drop (1 ACT)

The Agent drops a marker or token in the Square it currently occupies. The mission you are playing will indicate which markers or tokens can be picked up or dropped.

-----

# Mission Actions

Certain Missions will define special Actions that can be performed by Agents. Read the Mission Briefing to determine if the Mission defines any such Actions.

---

# Specialist Actions

Some Agents have a specialty, indicated on their Stat Card (e.g. "Bladesman"). An Agent's specialty gives them access to special actions. These Specialist Actions can only be performed by spending **TO** rather than **AP**.

## Technical Actions

Technical Actions are actions that can only be performed by Agents with the `TECH` Special Rule.

### Hack (1 ACT)

The Agent hacks a terminal.

---

## Marksman Actions

Marksman Actions are actions that can only be performed by Agents with the `MARK` Special Rule.

### Aim And Shoot (2 TO)

The Agent aims a Ranged Weapon at a valid Target and fires that Ranged weapon at that target in an improved Shoot Action.  
During that Shoot Action, increase the selected Ranged Weapon's `ROA` by `2`.  
For the purposes of not repeating the same Action twice, this is considered to be a Shoot Action.

---

## Bladesman Actions

Bladesman Actions are actions that can only be performed by Agents with the `BLADE` Special Rule.

### Assault (2 ACT)

The Agent assaults a Target with their selected Melee Weapon in an improved Melee attack.  
During that Melee Action, increase the selected Melee Weapon's `ROA` by `2`.  
For the purposes of not repeating the same Action twice, this is considered to be a Melee Combat Action.

---

## Medic Actions

Medic Actions are actions that can only be performed by Agents with the `MEDIC` Special Rule.

### Advanced Revive (2 TO)

The Agent revives a Downed Agent in an Adjacent Square, restoring `4` `HIT` (instead of `2` `HIT`) to that Downed Agent after it is revived.  
For the purposes of not repeating the same Action twice, this is considered to be a Revive Action.

### Heal (2 TO)

The Agent restores `1D3+1` lost `HIT` to itself or another Standing Agent in an Adjacent Square. A Standing Agent healed in this fashion cannot go above its base `HIT`.