# Shoot

The Agent fires one of its Ranged weapons at a valid target.

## Step By Step

1. Selections
    1. The Attacker selects one of its Ranged weapons to use in this Shoot action.
    1. If the Attacker has no Ranged weapons, it cannot perform this action.
    1. The Attacker selects a valid Target.
        1. If the selected weapon has a limited range (Weapon Special Rule `RGx`), make sure the Target is within the weapon's range.
        1. The selected target must be at least 2 Squares away; an Agent cannot target an Agent in and adjacent Square with a ranged weapon.
        1. The selected Target must be in the Attacker's [Line Of Sight](../1.Introduction/5.LineOfSight.md)
1. Roll Attack
    1. The Attacker rolls a number of dice equal to the `R` Stat of its selected Ranged weapon, plus applicable [Modifiers](#modifiers).
    1. All die results that are equal to or lower than the selected Ranged weapon's `S` Stat (plus applicable [Modifiers](#modifiers)) are successes, any others are failures.
        1. Remember that die results of `1` are always successes, and die results of `6` are always failures (regardless of any other modifiers or rules).
        1. Apply applicable [Modifiers](#modifiers) to the rolls
1. Roll Save
    1. The Target rolls a number of `D6` equal to its `DF` Stat, plus applicable [Modifiers](#modifiers). Any result that is less than or equal to its `AR` Stat are successful saves. Each successful save removes one successful hit.
1. Resolve remaining hits
    1. For each remaining successful hit, inflict the selected Ranged Weapon's `D` [Damage](../1.Introduction/4.Damage.md) to the Target.

## Modifiers

Modifiers can apply to the Attacker's selected Weapon's R or S Stats, or to the Target's DF or AR Stats.  
Note that after all Modifiers have been applied, a die roll of 6 is always a failure, and a die roll of 1 is always a success. In addition, a die roll of 1 is always counted as two successes.  
In addition to these standard modifiers, some Agents' Special Actions (e.g. [Aim And Shoot](./1.Actions.md#marksman-actions)), Special Rules, or [Skills](../2.Squads/1.StatCards.md#skills) may apply additional modifiers to the Attack or Save rolls.

|Condition|Description|Modifier|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|**Attack Modifiers**|
|High Ground|Target is at least 2 Squares lower than Attacker|S +1|
|Friendly Fire|Target is Adjacent to a Standing Squadmate of the Attacker|R -1|
|**Save Modifiers**|
|Cover|Target is in [Cover](../1.Introduction/5.LineOfSight.md#cover)|DF +1|

## Examples

* [TBD]