# Melee

Melee Combat occurs when two Agents are in adjacent Squares and one of them initiates a Melee action.

## Step By Step

1. Selections
    1. The Attacker selects a valid target in an Adjacent square
        - Target may be in a horizontally adjacent square that is on the same vertical level as the Attacker, or 1 square above or below the Attacker's vertical level
    1. The Attacker selects one of its Melee weapons to use in this Melee action
    1. The Target selects one of its Melee weapons to use in this Melee action
1. Roll Attack
    1. The Attacker rolls the `R` dice (plus any [Modifiers](#modifiers)) for its selected Melee weapon
        1. All die results that are equal to or lower than the selected Melee weapon's `S` stat are successes, any others are failures
    1. The Target rolls the `R` dice (plus any [Modifiers](#modifiers)) for its selected Melee weapon
        1. All die results that are equal to or lower than the selected Melee weapon's `S` stat are successes, any others are failures
1. Resolve Successes
    1. Cancel out successes from the Attacker and Target. These are strikes that were blocked or parried.
    1. Each remaining success (if any) inflicts the selected Melee Weapon's `D` [Damage](../1.Introduction/4.Damage.md) to its opponent.
    1. If the Attacker and the Target had the same number of successes, no damage is inflicted on either Agent.

## Modifiers

Modifiers can apply to the Attacker's selected Weapon's R or S Stats, or to the Target's DF or AR Stats.  
Note that after all Modifiers have been applied, a die roll of 6 is always a failure, and a die roll of 1 is always a success. In addition, a die roll of 1 is always counted as two successes.  
In addition to these standard modifiers, some Agents' Special Actions, Special Rules, or [Skills](../2.Squads/1.StatCards.md#skills) may apply additional modifiers to the roll.

|Condition|Description|Modifier|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|High Ground|Opponent is 1 Square lower|S +1|
|Support|One or more Squadmate is in an Adjacent Square to the Opponent|R +1|

## Examples

* [TBD]