# Actions

During its activation, an Agent can perform a number of Actions up to its `ACT` stat *(see [StatCards](../2.Squads/1.StatCards.md))*.  
Each Action costs a number of Action Points or `ACT`.

Actions with an `ACT` cost can be performed by spending the Agent's `ACT` Action Points or the Squad's [Tactical Orders](../1.Introduction/2.Basics.md#tactical-orders), or any combination of the two (for example, if an Agent's skill costs `2 ACT`, you can spend 1 `ACT` + 1 `TO` to perform that action).  
Actions with a `TO` cost can only be performed by spending the Squad's [Tactical Orders](../1.Introduction/2.Basics.md#tactical-orders).

Unless otherwise specified, an Agent may not perform the same Action more than once during its activation.

# Basic Actions

All Agents can perform the following Actions during their Activation:

## Move (1 ACT)

The Agent moves a number of squares up to its `MOV` stat.  
*(See also [Actions - Movement](./2.Movement.md))*

## Dash (1 ACT)

The Agent moves up to `2` Squares. This movement follows the same rules as a normal Move.  
*(See also [Actions - Movement](./2.Movement.md))*

## Shoot (1 ACT)

The Agent fires one of its Ranged weapons at a valid target. Note that if an Agent does not have a Range weapon, it cannot perform this Action.  
*(See also [Actions - Combat](./3.Combat.md))*

## Melee (1 ACT)

Melee Combat occurs when two Agents are in adjacent Squares and one of them initiates a Melee action.  
*(See also [Actions - Combat](./4.Combat.md))*

## Open/Close Door (1 ACT)

The Agent opens or closes a door that is on one of the edges of its current Square.

## Pick Up (1 ACT)

The Agent picks up a marker or token that is in the Square it currently occupies. The mission you are playing will indicate which markers or tokens can be picked up or dropped.

## Drop (1 ACT)

The Agent drops a marker or token in the Square it currently occupies. The mission you are playing will indicate which markers or tokens can be picked up or dropped.

## Revive (2 TO)
The Agent revives a [Downed](../1.Introduction/4.Damage.md) Agent in an Adjacent Square.  
When an Downed Agent is revived, it returns with `1D3` `HIT` remaining, and it cannot be activated during this Turn (it is considered to have already been activated).  
The Agent cannot perform this Action in the same activation in which it performed an Advanced Revive Action.  
The Agent cannot perform this action if it is Adjacent to a Standing Enemy Agent, or if the Downed Agent is Adjacent to a Standing Enemy Agent.

-----

# Mission Actions

Certain Missions will define special Actions that can be performed by Agents. Read the Mission Briefing to determine if the Mission defines any such Actions.
