# Movement

Movement in Skirm is measured in Squares.

If an Agent wants to move vertically (up or down), it must do so against a wall that is marked as Climbable, or whose height is 1 Square tall. Note that this does not apply to slopes or stairs. Stairs and slopes can be treated as horizontal movement that gives free vertical movement.

Agents cannot traverse walls; they must move around or climb over them.

When an Agent moves on the Battle Map, the maximum distance it can travel is given in Squares by its `MOV` stat. Movement can be done along any cardinal direction (North, South, East, West) or in diagonal (North-East, North-West, South-East, South-West).

## Diagonal Movement

Note that diagonal movement can only happen if the Squares perpendicular to the diagonal direction are not occupied or blocked.  
For example, for an Agent to move North-West, both Squares at its North and West must be unoccupied and traversable.

## Occupied Squares

Two Agents cannot share the same Square; each Square can only be occupied by a maximum of 1 Agent.  
Note that an Agent cannot pass through a Square that is adjacent to an enemy Agent, unless they end their movement in that Square (to prepare for Melee Combat).

## Difficult Terrain

Some Squares will be marked as "Difficult", indicating that they take more effort to traverse. Entering a Difficult Square only costs 1 `MOV` (as normal), but leaving that Square to another Square costs 2 `MOV`.  
If an Agent moves from one Difficult Square to another Difficult Square, cost remains 2 `MOV`.

## Vertical Movement

If there is a wall 1 Square high between two Squares (and they are on the same level), moving across that wall costs 2 `MOV`.  
Climbing vertical terrain costs 1 `MOV` per vertical Square, plus 1 `MOV` for the horizontal direction desired.  
Note that for an Agent to climb a wall, that wall must be mutually agreed by both players to be Climbable at the start of the battle. Generally these walls will be easily identifiable with a ladder or other visual marker indicating it is climbable.
