# Combat

Ranged and Melee combat uses the same general process for determining hits and damage. The main difference is in target selection.

# Step by Step

1. **Selections**
    1. Ranged Combat:
        1. The Attacker selects one of its Ranged weapons to use in this Shoot action.
        1. If the Attacker has no Ranged weapons, it cannot perform this action.
        1. The Attacker selects a valid Target.
            1. If the selected weapon has a limited range (Weapon Special Rule `RGx`), make sure the Target is within the weapon's range.
            1. The selected target must be at least 2 Squares away; an Agent cannot target an Agent in an adjacent Square with a ranged weapon.
            1. The selected Target must be in the Attacker's [Line Of Sight](../1.Introduction/5.LineOfSight.md)
    1. Melee Combat:
        1. The Attacker selects a valid target in an Adjacent square
            - Target may be in a horizontally adjacent square that is on the same vertical level as the Attacker, or 1 square above or below the Attacker's vertical level
        1. The Attacker selects one of its Melee weapons to use in this Melee action
        1. The Target selects one of its Melee weapons to use in this Melee action
1. **Roll Attacks** - Determine if the Attacker's weapon reached the Target
    1. Attacker rolls one die for each of the selected weapon's `ROA` (Rate of Attack) + applicable [Modifiers]().
    1. Each die result that is equal to or lower than the selected weapon's `SKL` (Skill) is a successful Attack. Note that die results of 1 are always successes and count as two successes, and die results of 6 are always failures.
1. **Roll Saves** - Determine how much damage the Attacker inflicted on the Target
    1. For each of the Attacker's successful Attacks, the Target rolls one Save die
    1. If a die result is equal to or lower than `ARM` - `DAM`, then the Target's Armor absorbed the damage from this attack
    1. If a die result is higher than `ARM` - `DAM`, then the Target loses one `HIT`
    1. Note that die results of 1 are always successes and count as two successes, and die results of 6 are always failures
    1. For example, the Attacker scored 3 successful hits in their Hits roll. The Target now has to roll 3 dice (one per successful hit) to determine which ones penetrated their armor. The Target has an `ARM` of 7 and the Attacker's selected weapon has `DAM` of 3. Die results of 4 (`ARM` 7 - `DAM` 3 = 4) or less will be successful saves, and each result of 5 or 6 will reduce the Target's `HIT` by `1`

# Modifiers

## Ranged Combat Modifiers

Modifiers can apply to the Attacker's selected Weapon's `ROA` or `SKL` Stats, or to the Target's `ARM` Stat.  
Note that after all Modifiers have been applied, a die roll of 6 is always a failure, and a die roll of 1 is always a success. In addition, a die roll of 1 is always counted as two successes.  
In addition to these standard modifiers, some Agents' Special Actions, Special Rules, or [Skills](../2.Squads/1.StatCards.md#skills) may apply additional modifiers to the Attack or Save rolls.

|Condition|Description|Modifier|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|High Ground|Target is at least 2 Squares lower than Attacker|Attacker `SKL` +1|
|Friendly Fire|One or more of the Attacker's Squadmates is in an Adjacent Square to the Target|Attacker `ROA` -1|
|Cover|Target is in [Cover](../1.Introduction/6.LineOfSight.md#cover)|Target `ARM` +1|

## Melee Combat Modifiers

|Condition|Description|Modifier|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|High Ground|Target is 1 Square lower than Attacker|Attacker `SKL` +1|
|Support|One or more of the Attacker's Squadmates is in an Adjacent Square to the Target|Attacker `ROA` +1|