# Introduction

[TBD]

# Glossary

### Agent

An Agent is a member of your Strike Team. Each Agent is represented by a model on the Battle Map and has a matching Stat Card (*See 2.1.AgentCards*).

### Square

A Square is a single square on your Battle Map. Squares are used for all Movement and Distance measurements (*See 1.5.Squares*).

### Weapon

A Weapon is a piece of wargear that an Agent is carrying. Weapons can be Melee weapons or Ranged weapons.

# Game Cycle

[TBD]

# Dice Rolls

## Basics

Skirm uses 6-sided dice for all rolls. These will be indicated throughout the rules as `D6`.

Some rolls will require more than one die. For those, the number of dice to roll will be indicated before `D6`. 

For example, to indicate a roll of 3 dice: `3D6`. To indicate a roll of 1 die: `1D6`.

### Successes and Failures

When rolling against a character or weapon stat, a die roll is a success if its value is equal to or lower than that stat.

## Hero Die

The Hero Die mechanic allows for unexpected or heroic actions.

For every roll, one of your dice should be your "hero" die. This die should be a different color than your normal dice to mark it clearly for you and your opponent.

When rolling `1D6`, that single die will be your Hero Die. When rolling `4D6`, roll 3 normal dice and 1 Hero Die.

If a Hero Die is a success, it counts as two successes. If a Hero Die is a failure, it is treated as a normal failure.

# Squares

All movement and distance measurements in Skirm are measured in squares. No need for tape measures, gauges, or rulers!

## Battle Map

The Skirm Battle Map is a grid of 1.5" (or 40mm). All movement and distance/range measurements are done by counting squares.

## Movement

*See 3.1.BasicActions for more on Movement*

When an Agent moves on the Battle Map, the maximum distance it can travel is give in squares in its `MV` stat. Movement can be done along any cardinal direction (North, South, East, West) or in diagonal (North-East, North-West, South-East, South-West).

Two Agents cannot share the same square; each square can only be occupied by a maximum of 1 Agent.

## Adjacent Squares

All 8 squares surrounding a given square are considered to be **Adjacent** to that square. When selecting a valid target for Melee combat (*see 3.1.BasicActions*), the initiator and its target must be in adjacent squares. Note that two squares that have a height difference of more than 1 square are not considered to be adjacent.

Note that if a wall that is higher than 1 square is between two squares, those two squares are not considered to be **Adjacent**.

## Distance

*See 3.1.BasicActions for more on weapon ranges*

To measure the distance between two squares (for example, to check if a target is within the Range of a given Ranged Weapon), take the *highest* number of the following two measurements:
* The **horizontal** distance between the shooter and its target (excluding height differences)
* The **vertical** distance between the shooter and its target (excluding horizontal distance)

The target is considered to be in range of that weapon if the lower number is equal to or lower than the weapon's range.

### Examples

* [TBD]