# Basics

This section covers the Basic rules of Skirm, and establishes core principles that are extended in later sections of the rules.

# Dice Rolls

## Basics

Skirm uses 6-sided dice for all rolls. These will be indicated throughout the rules as `D6`.

Some rolls will require more than one die. For those, the number of dice to roll will be indicated before `D6`. 

For example, to indicate a roll of 3 dice: `3D6`. To indicate a roll of 1 die: `1D6`.

## Successes and Failures

When rolling against a character or weapon stat, a die roll is a success if its value is equal to or lower than that stat.

Irrespective of any modifiers, a die result of **1** is always a success, and a result of **6** is always a failure.

## Re-Rolls

Certain rules and events allow you to re-roll a die. In those cases, announce the die to be re-rolled, pick it up, and roll it again. Once a die is re-rolled, its result is final and it cannot be re-rolled again.

## Hero Die

The Hero Die mechanic allows for unexpected or heroic actions.

For every roll, one of your dice must be your "hero" die. This die should be a different color than your normal dice to mark it clearly for you and your opponent.

When rolling `1D6`, that single die will be your Hero Die. When rolling `4D6`, roll 3 normal dice and 1 Hero Die.

If a Hero Die is a success, it counts as two successes. If a Hero Die is a failure, it is treated as a normal failure.

> ### Options to consider:
> * Skip Hero Die, make all 6s double successes
> * Skip Hero Die, make all 6s explode
> * Keep Hero Die, skip double successes, make Hero Die explode on success (or only 6s?)

# Tactical Orders

At the start of each turn, each player rolls `3D6` + `1D6` for each living Leader's `LDRx` Special Rule. For example, if your Leader has the `LD2` Special Rule, you would roll a ttal of `5D6` for Tactical Orders (`3D6` base + `2D6` from your Leader).

For each result of `1-3`, that player will have one available Tactical Order. Tactical Orders allow Agents to perform more Actions that that Agent's `AP` Action limit. Unless otherwise specified, Actions performed as a result of a Tactical Order do not count against the limit of one Action type per Activation. For example, an Agent may shoot once as part of its normal Actions, and shoot again as a result of a Tactical Order.

## Using Tactical Orders

During an Agent's activation, you may spend any number of Tactical Orders you obtained for that Turn on more actions for that Agent. Tactical Orders may be used to:
* Perform an Additional Basic Action (Move, Shoot, or Melee)

Note that you cannot spend Tactical Orders to perform the same Basic Action more than once for a give Agent (i.e. you cannot spend two Tactical Orders on one Agent to perform two additional Shoot actions).

You may also spend one Tactical Order to re-roll any one die for any roll (including during one of your opponent's Agents' Activations).