# StatCards

StatCards describe your Agents and their Weapons with numerical values. In general, the higher the number, the better the Agent or Weapon.

# Agent StatCards

|Agent|AP|MV|AR|HP|Special|
|:---------------|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----|
|**Knight Technician**|3|6|1|13|Technician|

* `AP`: **Action Points** - The maximum number of Action Points this Agent can spend on Actions during its activation.
* `MV`: **Movement** - The maximum number of Squares this Agent can travel during a Move action.
* `AR`: **Armor** - When Damage is inflicted on this Agent, reduce each hit by the Armor stat.
* `HP`: **Hit Points** - The maximum amount of damage this Agent can receive before it is killed.
* `Special`: **Special** - Special rules for this Agent (see Special Rules below).

## Agent Special Rules

* `DS`: **Double Shoot** This Agent can perform the Shoot action twice in its activation.
* `DM`: **Double Melee:** This Agent can perform the Melee twice in its activation.
* `HLx`: **Heal x:** This Agent regains `x` Hit Points at the start of each turn.
* `DM`: **Double Move:** This agent can perform the Move action twice in its activation.
* `TECH`: **Technician:** This Agent can perform Technical actions (see Actions) for 1 less AP (minimum 0 AP).

# Weapon StatCards

|Weapons|TYP|ROA|HIT|DAM|Special|
|:---------------|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----:|:----|
|Combat Pistol|R|4|4|3|RG6[^RG6]|
|Chain Sword|M|5|4|4|CR2[^CR2]|

* `TYP`: **Weapon Type** - `R` indicates a Ranged weapon, `M` indicates a Melee weapon.
* `ROA`: **Rate Of Attack** - How many dice to roll when using this weapon.
* `HIT`: **To-Hit** - Indicates the maximum die result to be treated as a success. For example, a `HIT` of 4 indicates that dice rolls of 1, 2, 3, or 4 are successes and 5 or 6 are failures.
* `DAM`: **Damange** - The amount of damage this weapon inflicts on its targets for each successful hit. Note that `DAM` is reduced by the target's `AR` (Armor) value before the target loses `HP`.
* `Special`: **Special** - Special rules for this weapon (see Special Rules below).

## Weapon Special Rules

* `RRx`: **Re-Roll** - You can re-roll die results of `x`
* `CRx`: **Critial** - Die results of `x` are treated as Critical
* `RGx`: **Range** - The weapon's maximum range for target selection is `x` Squares
* `BLx`: **Blast** - Every time the Agent fires this weapon, it fires against the target and any other Agent within `x` Squares of the original Target.
