# Actions

During its activation, an Agent can perform a number of Actions up to its `AP` stat.

Unless otherwise specified, an Agent may not perform the same Action more than once during its activation.

# Basic Actions

All Agents can perform the following Actions during their turn

# Move (1 AP)

Movement in Skirm is measured in Squares.

An Agent can move up to its `MV` stat when performing a Move action. 

If an Agent wants to move vertically (up or down), it must do so against a wall that is marked as Climbable, or whose height is 1 Square tall. Note that this does not apply to slopes or stairs. Stairs and slopes can be treated as horizontal movement that gives free vertical movement.

Agents cannot traverse walls, they must move around or climb over them.

## Examples

### Horizonal Movement

[TBD]

### Diagonal Movement

[TBD]

### Vertical Movement

[TBD]

# Dash (1 AP)

The Agent moves up to 2 Squares. This movement follows the same rules as a normal Move (see above).

# Melee (1 AP)

Melee Combat occurs when two Agents are in adjacent Squares and one of them initiates a Melee action.

## Step By Step

1. The Attacker selects a valid target in an Adjacent square
1. The Attacker selects one of its Melee weapons to use in this Melee action
1. The Attacker rolls the `ROA` dice for its selected Melee weapon
1. All die results that are equal to or lower than the selected Melee weapon's `HIT` stat are successes, any others are failures
1. The Target selects one of its Melee weapons to use in this Melee action
1. The Target rolls the `ROA` dice for its selected Melee weapon
1. All die results that are equal to or lower than the selected Melee weapon's `HIT` stat are successes, any others are failures
    1. If the Attacker has more successes than the Target
        1. Subtract the Target's number of successes from the Attacker's number of successes. Inflict `DAM` damage minus the Targets's `AR` (Armor) value on the Target once for each success the Attacker had above the Target.
    1. If the Target has more successes than the Attacker
        1. Subtract the Attacker's number of successes from the Targets's number of successes. Inflict `DAM` damage minus the Attacker's `AR` (Armor) value on the Attacker once for each success the Target had above the Attacker.
    1. If the Attacker and the Target had the same number of successes, no damage is inflicted on either Agent.
    

## Examples

* [TBD]

# Shoot (1 AP)

The Agent fires one of its Ranged weapons at a valid target.

## Step By Step

1. The Attacker selects one of its Ranged weapons to use in this Shoot action
    1. If the Attacker has no Ranged weapons, it cannot perform this action
1. The Attacker selects a valid target
    1. If the selected weapon has a limited range (Weapon Special Rule `RGx`), make sure the Target is within the weapon's range
    1. The selected target must be at least 2 Squares away; an Agent cannot target an Agent in and adjacent Square with a ranged weapon.
1. The Attacker rolls the `ROA` dice for its selected Ranged weapon
1. All die results that are equal to or lower than the selected Ranged weapon's `HIT` stat are successes, any others are failures
1. For each success, inflict the selected Ranged weapon's `DAM` damage minus the Attacker's `AR` (Armor) value on the Target

## Examples

* [TBD]

# Open/Close Door (1 AP)

The Agent opens or closes a door that is within 1 Square of its current position.