# Introduction

This section of the rule book provides an introduction to the game and its universe and covers core terminology used throughout the rules.

# Background

[TBD - Lore]

# Glossary

* **Activation** *(See [Game Cycle](../4.GameCycle/1.GameCycle.md) and [Actions](../3.Actions/1.Actions.md))*
    * An Activation is the full set of Actions performed by an Agent when they are activated. During each turn, all Agents for all players have exactly one Activation.
* **Agent** *(See [Stat Cards](../2.Squads/1.StatCards.md))*
    * An Agent is a member of your Squad. Each Agent is represented by a model on the Battle Map and has a matching Stat Card.
* **Die/Dice** *(See [Basics - Dice Rolls](./2.Basics.md#dice-rolls))*
    * A Die (plural Dice) is a 6-sided die used to determine success or failure of certain actions.
* **Downed Agent** *(See [Damage](./4.Damage.md))*
    * An Agent that is has lost all of its `HP`. Downed Agents are placed on their side to indicate their status (opposite of **Standing**).
* **Event** *(See [Game Cycle](6.GameCycle.md))*
    * Each Mission is in a given Environment, and each Environment has random Events that occur in each Turn.
* **Line Of Sight** *(See [Line Of Sight](./5.LineOfSight.md))*
    * Line Of Sight determines which Agents can be targeted by another Agent for Ranged combat (and some special Actions).
* **Roll-Off**
    * A Roll-Off is a special Dice Roll in which each player rolls `1D6` and compares the result. The highest number is determined to be the winner of the Roll-Off. If both players roll the same value, both players re-roll until a winner is determined.
* **Stat** *(See [StatCards](../2.Squads/1.StatCards.md) and [Basics - Dice Rolls](./2.Basics.md#dice-rolls))*
    * A Stat is a number that measures an Agent or Weapon's quality. Note that in all cases, higher stats are better.
* **Squad**
    * Your Squad is your team of Agents that you send into battle.
* **Squadmate**
    * Two Agents are said to be Squadmates if they are in the same Squad.
* **Square** *(See [BattleMap](./3.BattleMap.md))*
    * A Square is a single square on your Battle Map. Squares are used for all Movement and Distance measurements .
* **Standing Agent**
    * An Agent that still has at least 1 `HP` remaining (opposite of **Downed**). 
* **Tactical Order** *(See [Basics - Tactical Orders](./2.Basics.md#tactical-orders))*
    * A Tactical Order is a "Free" action that can be taken by one of your Agents. At the start of each Turn, you will generate a number of Tactical Orders that can be spent on additional Actions by your Agents, or free die re-rolls.
* **Turn** *(See [Game Cycle](5.GameCycle.md))*
    * A Turn is a full Turn in the game cycle.
* **Weapon** *(See [Stat Cards](../2.Squads/1.StatCards.md))*
    * A Weapon is a piece of wargear that an Agent is carrying. Weapons can be Melee weapons or Ranged weapons.
