# Basics

This section covers the Basic rules of Skirm, and establishes core principles that are extended in later sections of the rules.

# Alternate Activations

Each player takes alternating turns activating the Agents in their Squad. For example, in order:
1. Player 1 activates their first Agent
1. Player 2 activates their first Agent
1. Player 1 activates their second Agent
1. Player 2 activates their second Agent
1. Player 1 activates their third Agent
1. Player 2 activates their third Agent

If a player has fewer Agents in play than their opponent, you may run into cases where your opponent still has Agents to activate but all your own Agents have already been activated. In those cases, `[TBD]`

> ### Options to consider:
> * Overwatch?
> * Do nothing?

# Dice Rolls

## Basics

Skirm uses 6-sided dice for all rolls. These will be indicated throughout the rules as `D6`.

Some rolls will require more than one die. For those, the number of dice to roll will be indicated before `D6`. 

For example, to indicate a roll of 3 dice: `3D6`. To indicate a roll of 1 die: `1D6`.

## Modifying A Die Result

Some rolls will require adding a number to a die's value. To indicate a roll whose result should be increased by `2`: `1D6+2`. This means roll a die, then add `2` to its value to get the final value.

|Die Result|Final Roll Value|
|:----:|:----:|
|`1`|`3`|
|`2`|`4`|
|`3`|`5`|
|`4`|`6`|
|`5`|`7`|
|`6`|`8`|

## Rolling A D3

Some rolls will require roll a `D3`. Since three-sided dice are not readily available, roll a `D6` and divide its result by `2`, rounding up.

|Die Result|Final Roll Value|
|:----:|:----:|
|`1`|`1`|
|`2`|`1`|
|`3`|`2`|
|`4`|`2`|
|`5`|`3`|
|`6`|`3`|

## Successes and Failures

When rolling against a character or weapon stat, a die roll is a success if its value is equal to or lower than that stat.

Irrespective of any modifiers, a roll of `1` is always a success, and a result of `6` is always a failure.

## Re-Rolls

Certain rules and events allow you to re-roll a die. In those cases, announce the die to be re-rolled, pick it up, and roll it again. Once a die is re-rolled, its result is final and it cannot be re-rolled again.

## Hero Dice

The Hero Dice mechanic allows for unexpected or heroic actions.

For every roll, one of your dice must be your "hero" die. This die should be a different color than your normal dice to mark it clearly for you and your opponent.

When rolling `1D6`, that single die will be your Hero Die. When rolling `4D6`, roll 3 normal dice and 1 Hero Die.

If a Hero Die is a success, it counts as two successes. If a Hero Die is a failure, it is treated as a normal failure.

> ### Options to consider:
> * Skip Hero Die, make all 6s double successes
> * Skip Hero Die, make all 6s explode
> * Keep Hero Die, skip double successes, make Hero Die explode on success (or only 6s?)

# Tactical Orders

At the start of each turn, each player rolls `3D6` and adds `1` for each living Leader's `LDx` Special Rule. For example, if your Leader has the `LD2` Special Rule, you would roll `3D6` for Tactical Orders + 2 Tactical Orders(`3D6` base + `2` from your Leader). If you do not have a Leader Agent on the Battle Map, you do not get their Tactical Order bonus and just roll `3D6`.

For each result of `1-3`, you will have one Tactical Order. Tactical Orders allow Agents to perform more Actions that that Agent's `AP` Action limit. Unless otherwise specified, Actions performed as a result of a Tactical Order do not count against the limit of one Action type per Activation. For example, an Agent may shoot once as part of its normal Actions, and shoot again as a result of a Tactical Order.

## Using Tactical Orders

During an Agent's activation, you may spend any number of Tactical Orders you obtained for that Turn on more actions for that Agent. Tactical Orders may be used to:
* Perform an Additional Basic Action (Move, Dash, Shoot, Melee, etc.) during an Agent's Activation
    * Note that you cannot spend Tactical Orders to perform the same Basic Action more than once for a give Agent (i.e. you cannot spend two Tactical Orders on one Agent to perform two additional Shoot actions), unless that Agent has Special rules indicating otherwise (e.g. `SH2` - See StatCards).
* Re-roll any one die for any roll (including during one of your opponent's Agents' Activations, for example during Melee combat)

# Scoring Points And Objectives

Each Battle Map will have Objectives placed on it. Depending on the mission, these Objectives may need to be controlled to score Mission Points.

An Agent that occupies the same Square as an Objective is said to control that Objective. At the end of each Turn, your Squad scores one Mission Point for each Objective that one of your Agents controls.