# Battle Map

The Skirm Battle Map is a grid of 1.5" (or 40mm). All movement and distance/range measurements are done by counting squares. The total size of the map is typically 21 by 13 Squares.

> ### Options to consider:
> * Battle Map standard size - Having a mappable grid using `D6` would be useful for mission generation

# Squares

All movement and distance measurements in Skirm are measured in Squares. No need for tape measures, gauges, or rulers!

## Movement

*See Basic Actions for more on Movement*

When an Agent moves on the Battle Map, the maximum distance it can travel is give in squares in its `MV` stat. Movement can be done along any cardinal direction (North, South, East, West) or in diagonal (North-East, North-West, South-East, South-West).  
Two Agents cannot share the same square; each square can only be occupied by a maximum of 1 Agent.

## Adjacent Squares

All 8 squares surrounding a given square are considered to be **Adjacent** to that square. When selecting a valid target for Melee combat (*see Basic Actions*), the initiator and its target must be in adjacent squares. Note that two squares that have a height difference of more than 1 square are not considered to be adjacent.  
Note that if a wall that is higher than 1 square is between two squares, those two squares are not considered to be **Adjacent**.

## Distances And Range

To measure the distance between two squares (for example, to check if a target is within the Range of a given Ranged Weapon), take the *highest* number of the following two measurements:
* The **horizontal** distance between the shooter and its target (excluding height differences)
* The **vertical** distance between the shooter and its target (excluding horizontal distance)

The target is considered to be in range of that weapon if the lower number is equal to or lower than the weapon's range.

### Examples

* [TBD]