# Game Cycle

A game of Skirm is played in the following order:

1. Mission Start
    1. Select Mission
    1. Select Squad
    1. Prepare Battle Map
    1. Deploy Agents
1. Turns
    1. Turn 1
    1. Turn 2
    1. Turn 3
    1. Turn 4
1. Mission End

# Mission Start

## Select Mission

*(See [Missions](../../2.Missions))*

Select a Mission to play. Both players must reach consensus on the Mission to play.

## Select Squad

*(See [Squads](../../3.Squads))*

Select one of your Squads to take on the Mission

## Prepare Battle Map

Set up your Battlemap according to the Mission's briefing. This includes placing buildings and other terrain features, placing objectives, and any other actions defined by the selected Mission.

## Deploy Agents

Roll-off to determine the first Squad to deploy their first Agent. The winner of the roll-off selects their Deployment zone and places their first Agent, then Squads take turns deploying their Agents until all Agents have been deployed.  
The Mission briefing will determine which Squares are valid for each Squad's Deployment.

# Turns

During each Turn:
1. Start of Turn
    1. Mark all Agents as Ready (not Activated)
    1. Resolve all "Start of Turn" actions or events (e.g. "Heal")
    1. Roll-off for Initiative
        1. Highest score wins Initiative; both sides re-roll any ties until a winner is determined
    1. Roll for [Tactical Orders](../1.Introduction/2.Basics.md#tactical-orders) for the Turn
    1. The Squad with the Initiative rolls for the Mission's Events (if any) for this Turn
1. Agent activations
    1. The Squad with the Initiative activates their first Agent, then Squads alternate activating their Agents until all Agents have been activated.
1. End Of Turn
    1. Resolve all "End of Turn" actions or events
    1. Score Mission Points according to the selected Mission
    1. Remove all Downed Agents from the Battlemap.

## Scoring Mission Points

Mission Points determine the winner of the battle. Each Mission will define conditions under which a Squad can score Mission Points.  

# Mission End

At the end of Turn 4, tally the total Mission Points for each Squad. The Squad with the highest number of Mission Points is declared the winner of the battle.
